Hey folks, Intel is a
sponsor this week and I
welcome them because they're bringing
some high performance developer tools
for all of us. Check
out Intel's parallel studio X,
E I've talked about parallelism
before on the show and
the importance of using the
complete instruction set, unlocking the
power of the process or
that your code is running
on. Now, you all might
be writing C or C
plus plus Python or even
Fortran, but is your code
building in such a way
and written in such a
way that it uses the
latest techniques for vectorization multithreading
multi-node parallelization or memory optimization?
Intel parallel studio ECC has
a lot of new stuff
for 2018 across all these
languages. Get a free download
at bitly.com/parallels studio X, E,
or certainly go and Google
or Google with being for
Intel parallel studio XE and
get started. Boosting your apps
performance with smart parallel code
with a lot less effort.
Check them out. piddly.com/parallel studio
X E. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes today.
I'm talking with peanut, which
one? Dardy. He has created
a whole bunch of animations
that you have seen. He's
been in the Tribeca film
festival. He's an award winning
shorty awards, nominated all over.
You've seen his stuff. Thank
you so much for coming
on my show. Thank you
so much for having me.
So you are a designer
and you work at Vayner
media, or do they, have
you make these, these, these
small videos or are you
making them in your, in
your spare time? Yeah, I
was I'm at work with
Emilia as nanny methods and
sometimes at home I do
some personal projects to develop
something interesting, but still based
on my core skill, as
in any matter. And also
I work with my fits
at home, or I've worked
with there. You might get
an asset of the story
in shots. So basically it's
like, yeah, I thought I
saw on your Instagram and
sometimes on your Twitter where
I think it was one
of your children bought a
little car, and then you
decided to, what did you
do with that car? So
basically the, usually in the
weekend, walking to the free
market in Manhattan and usually
my teammates or my son
looking for, he already has
a specific item. That's always
a cat industry like the
car, but at this time
he got the little pricey
car. So I asked him,
okay, you kind of have
this car, but you have
to create Something, read it.
So we decide to create
a stop motion rating. So
after that at home, we
prepare everything and he just
wrote the storyboard and give
it to me. And I
just have him in the
technical standpoint to, to, to
create a video. So basically
just like a, a backend
for collaboration. Yeah. Your family
is your collaboration team. Yeah,
I do. Yeah. They're my,
they're my imagination center. Yeah.
And it's, it's quite sophisticated
because they look like simple
animations. But if I were
trying to make this with
my, maybe with my iPhone,
I think I would have
trouble. You have like motion.
What is the, what is
it called when the camera
moves on a specific Track?
Yeah, it's a, I used
like the most in control
combat rate. I can control
the combat with my computer,
with the software called Dragonframe.
The combat will move frame
by frame. I already designed
in the specific key frame
from a to B with
the Canberra movement. So it
just want to make the,
the video itself more expanse,
even though it's very simple,
but I try to create
more like a more sophisticated
or more advance under sure
thing. Yeah. It seems like
your style is very interesting
because it's easy. I'm going
to say as someone who
is not an artist anymore,
I look at it and
I go, Oh wow, it's
very simple, but it's also
so complex. It's both simple
and complex at the same
time. Yeah. It's, it's like
a learning by doing my,
my, my kids learn how
to do, create a video
at the same time. I
learn how to develop an,
a, how to create a
story more spontaneously and more
impulsive and more, you know,
it's more fluid because basically
as a professional, I work
with Charlotte storyboards, timeframe and
schedule and such, but working
with them, it's just like,
there's so many possibilities that
I have to offer basically.
So yeah. One of the
things that you've done lately,
and I think that you're
becoming known for is using
older technology and combining it
with new techniques to make
something that looks really hard.
Like even just a few
days ago, you were doing
drawings on original Palm pilot.
Yeah. Recently I'm doing a
small journey going back to
the old technology when it
was developed or released, but
at a time that products
or that, that, that technology
was built into something else.
Like the company that basically
is more like pork business
and Palm PDA is small
business, but they're software and
the capability, it's more, it's
smarter. It's more than that.
I mean, there are so
many possibilities that we can
create, like the enemy's in
itself because maybe not maybe,
but I'm sure that when
Candace was released in 1984,
basically for watermark business, our
small business, our home computer
business. But when they trying
to create some art or
any missions, they already have
something in mind. It has
to be what are realistic.
It has to be more
rich color or Model must
smooth. So when, when, when
, they, they're not thinking
very deeply with, with the
current capability. So when they
are taking any mission, they
will think about big machine,
fancy machine, expensive equipment, basically
in like in the Hollywood
for Hong Kong, with their basically
you can create an emission
ashram as we can think
at, well, this is what
it is. I mean, it
doesn't have to be with
color. It doesn't have to
be photorealistic, but basically you
can create, say with the
PDA, the Pompidou was built
for businessman, but there's a
animation software. It's very basic.
It's very, it just, it's
like a, not a serious
application. But if we are
looking back with, are already,
we are living in the
era when pixel art become
something. So when we've traveled
back in, in the time
when the pumpy there was
arrived, it's already an art,
it's already something. But when
in the 2000 something fixture
art didn't exist before. So
it's just like a principle
of design, this principle of
art, because at the time
there's no sustaining any mission
done on the farm. I
mean, serious animation, but he's
scared of Mars. This is
Mark with the pixel art
concept with a new concept.
More than that, when we
traveled back with your and
delegates, it's already there. So
basically it's like the mocking
costs and the pumpy, they're
basically like a picture of
art machine. That's true. The
black and white is only
one 60 by one 60
black and white, Or maybe
four, four gray. Exactly. It's
already, I mean, because we
already have some principles about
picture are the best. It's
the simplicity of the design
itself. The graphic itself is
already done years ago with
all technology. I have. This
makes sense because I'm still
trying to make or what
that make more sense. Yeah,
I understand. So one of
the things that you've done
that has gone viral, and
of course you've had many
things go viral. You had
a really interesting star Wars
trailer, remake that you made
on an Apple to see
that device was created 20,
30 years ago, 36 years
ago, 34 years ago, a
long time ago. You did
that with a koala pad.
Are you trying to make
it hard on yourself? It's
basically redoing what I did
years ago when I really
wanted an Apple computer, whether
it's Apple to see our
Apple to automatic invest. But
at the time it was
very pricey and we cannot,
we couldn't afford it. So
when I saw someone or
my friends or my family
doing something with their Apple
to see where the color
path I was thinking, why
don't we just create something
like a, we making a
trailer at the time, star
Wars written off with the
diversity. So I was thinking,
can I do something with
it, like a recreating the
trailer for the star Wars?
And of course the Olander
is have, that's not possible.
You will need lots of
these cats. You will need
lots of color because it's
only green. Right? So, but,
but something, I, something bugging
me that, but the company
that is only possible to
do that, why don't people
do the same? I mean,
thought the same, that it's
possible. So when, and now
in the modern times, I
just going back and doing
some, I, I want to
prove something what I said
30 years ago, that it's
possible. So, yeah. And I
think it's, I think it
works. It's possible with the
same equipment, with the same
technology, with the same software
the same. So, so basically
I just want to prove
something here. Not trying too
hard on me, but basically
just want to say something.
Look, I said it was
possible what, 30 years ago,
but basically just like doing,
they're doing what, what I
want to do 30 years
ago. And in the last
few, a few months you've
been working on a series
of pink pixel art sequences
and animations of Donald Glover's
video of his motions from
the video. This is America.
And you make these with,
with what software you're using
a Macintosh one 28 K
Yes. I'm using Mac paint
and a macro media, sorry.
Macro mind video works. The
software was released at the
same time if the same
era. So basically it's a
1985. I believe it's the
same, what I did with
the Apple to see. I
just, I just want to
prove something that it was
possible at that time. It
was possible to create an
animation. It was possible as
long as we using the
technology with its own capability,
without expecting too much expanding
collar, expecting a smooth emptiness
and just leave it as
it is with same concept
on a big scale arc
we have today. So I
think back going back to
the old technology to say
that it's possible, Did you
know it was possible? What
would you do if you
started this project and discovered
halfway that it wasn't possible
In 1988, I experienced the
same looking at my friends
doing the same.  S
E I was asking the
same. Can I build an
innocence with it? Yeah, that's
possible. But there's a limitation
color limitation with the smoothness
of the animation frame per
second, and some, any high
expectation for the art. And
I just want to do
a simple thing this very
best black and white, and
as long as it's moved,
it's any medicine basically. But
again, I didn't get any
chance to, to create something
with the computer. So this
is the same work I
did with a star Wars
ID doing the same situation.
I'm really doing like the
going back to the office
in order to prove it,
that is possible. And it
sounds like you're reliving your
childhood and you're sharing it
with your children. Yeah. You
can say that. So basically
just like a, some delayed
dream that I have to
will feel. And, and, and
now I have another fast
that I can do to
my children that I can
educate them about the technology
history I can show so
they can see about how
the technology was built or
developed in the, in the
years before they born. So
they understand that there is
this gap, there is a
black and white computer there's
limitation and under stories and
such thing. Yeah. I think
that's so important. I actually
spend a lot of time
with my children, teaching them
about retro games, like NES
and super Nintendo. And they
appreciate it. They they've enjoyed
like playing legend of Zelda
and Mario. Okay, good to
know. Yeah. I mean, I
have the same situation, so
it's not just for the
journeys. It's, it's more
like if it has more
deeper, meaning not just nostalgia
because we took it and
experienced the same and then
our children understand about something.
So yeah. I think, I
think, I think we are
doing the same thing here.
Yeah. I think that's really
important. I want to mention
that again for a second,
because you're saying that yes,
there is a wave of
nostalgia. There are people online
who are doing things because
nostalgia I'm old. I wish
I was not old, but
this is really saying, what
if we limit ourselves, how
creative can we be with
the limited tools? And it
makes you say, we could
have done this 30 years
ago. We could use Mac
tablet, Mac, vision, macro mind
director, and done these things.
Yeah. It just like, because
now we have an access
to the . So some
people doing it just for
fun, just for a temporary
pleasure. So I was thinking,
why don't we create something
from it experienced the same
situation with my children, and
maybe it relates into something
new. It relates into something
principles of art or principle
of how to experience the
computer better. Maybe not with
a million color, but you
see there some Minecraft basically
using the same principle. So
basically they're there. So my
kids can, can see the
limitation of technology can lead
into something, something new. So,
so they become independent with
the hierarchy so they can
choose any technology. They want
to create something, whether it's
an art is new, or
maybe back to the traditional,
without computer, like a cell
animation or stop motion. It
just like I'm doing like,
as a parents, giving them
so many options and so
many possibilities and outlandish to
create something, to build something
for the future. Yeah. You
said something about this on
Twitter that I thought was
very special and I'll read
a little bit of here.
People are asking you, well,
why didn't you just do
this with new technology, it
would be easier, faster, more
efficient. And you said, well,
why do people knit? If
they can print a pattern,
or why do they even
bother sculpting with clay? If
they can use three D
printing or why do they
do an oil painting when
they can paint with Photoshop?
Why? Yeah. It just like
trying to experience the same
pressure with my children. It's
just like, as if, if
I'm collecting an old car
or building an old car
from the scratch, it's like
just trying to ask my
children to come and join
and see how it works,
how it feels. And then
when they start running, the
car can run it just
like we are driving into
the beach and they can
feel the place, the same
presser as if they're just
because in the oldest, the
car itself is the main
purpose is for transportation, but
now it's more than transportation.
It's a nostalgia is an
education device. It's, it's, it's
more than that. It's for
a presser is for giving
to another propose basically via
COVID. Now has a new
purpose, not as for transport,
but more than that for
photography, for a model, for
a prop. So many things
the same way with the
computer. When we are looking
at the call, all computer,
basically, we already thinking that
there's no way that I
can create movie. That there's
no way because, because that's
our modern purpose, doesn't fit
with the, with the technology.
But if we modify the
purpose, we still can use
it with another purpose with
another, I dunno, another possibility
in the future. And my,
my, my it's already thought
that he has, he has
some thinking that you should
possible. If we create a
monochrome he made in the
feet are, so this is,
this kind of thought is
it's, it's possible because he
already see the, the monochromatic
one bit display on the
computer and he lives in
Iran. So basically it's like
trying to combine something into
something new, something. That's one
of the example. Yeah. See,
now I hope that the
people who are listening, as
well as myself immediately, I'm
trying to imagine myself in
a VR experiencing one bit
or for, you know, two
bit experience. And what would
that be like? That's a
space now that we have
to explore. Yeah. Somehow it
doesn't make sense for now,
but if the children in
this modern era looking back
and they bring something back
to the modern day nowadays,
and they think of something
for the future, it's like
a interesting combination, you know,
because the kids nowadays usually
doing iPads or the Nintendo's
should get me. So basically
it just like it's already
gap. It's only, it's not
really Tyler or, or bill
into a modern purpose, but
if they are going back
with the new, not new
with the old experience, they
may lead into something new
that, like, that's what I
said about the assemble of
how my kids want to
build the VR based on
the model or monochromatic one
big picture. Basically, it doesn't
make sense for now, but
we don't know in the
future in the 10 years,
yes. Maybe they came up
into something new, A big
thank you to our sponsors
because they make the show
possible. And I hope that
you support them the way
they support us progress. Software
is the creator of the
most comprehensive developer toolkit for
building modern apps on the
market. Today Tellerik dev craft
with more than 1100 tellerik.net
and Kendo, UI JavaScript components
and controls. You can easily
build modern high-performance web mobile
and desktop apps, as well
as chatbots. The tools that
also includes reporting solutions, automated
testing, and productivity tools, and
come to the range of
support options. New this year
is a free online training
program for all license holders,
with this alongside thousands of
demos and source code available,
comprehensive documentation and a full
assortment of visual studio templates,
you'll be up and running
with the progress Tellerik and
Kendo UI controls in no
time, download a free 30
day trial today at tellerik.com/hanselman
that's T E L E
R I k.com/hanselman. I'm going
to make sure to put
links. I want people to
watch the Donald Glover dance, and
I understand that there were
about 470 frames encompassing 38
seconds. Does that sound right?
About 12 frames, a second.
It's so 100, sorry, 1,350.
Oh, I'm sorry. So it
must be there's three sequences,
correct? Yeah. There are five
or sorry. There are five
cots. So is a 1,300
friends. Wow. And is that
about 10 or 12 frames?
A second, the frame per
second itself. It's I, I
did it to sing more
into the music, so it's
a very, it's it's it's
not a specific into one
frame per second. Yeah, I
see. So you really kind
of key frame it appropriately.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And
you, would you did it
in Mike macro mind directly,
or did that become macro
media someday, like purchased by
them? That's correct. Yeah. It
was Macromedia video Wars and
then micro made, sorry. It
was micromanage micromanage video works.
And then the chance to
do macro mind director and
change do Macromedia director until
they bought by Adobe. And
one of the things I
thought was really interesting when
I read about your workflow
is I, I realize that
you're making an animated GIF
for some mediums, but you're
doing this with hardware that
was created before animated gifs
Existed. The animated GIF was
built in the modern computer.
Right? Right. So you transfer
these picked this PI CT
file, and you're using a
thing called the big mess
of wires, floppy emulator. What
does this device give you?
So this device really helped
me to save the pile
into the modern storage, like
the SD card. So it's
just like a, it's like
a device to breaching between
the all computer into the
modern computer using the SD
card. So this device connected
into the floppy drive port
in the class. And if
you live, it's the, this
image inside the SD card,
this, this inmates, contents the
file. So I just went
and when, when I'm out,
when I'm on the, this
email, it will appear in
the desktop or the mucking
us. So I just put
copy or, or even transfer
the file into that, this
image, because this image is
already in the SD card.
So I can pull the
SD card to my MacBook
pro. So particularly I'm reading
this in the same, this
emits from them first. Wow.
So this is a business.
This person has created this
physical device that allows you
to Mount SD cards like
a real describe there's no
drivers, it's lying to the
original Macintosh and telling it
that it has a floppy
drive. Yeah. It's, it's interesting
to see how people or
NTS enthusiast, a technology built
into trying to bridge between
the old computer, into the
modern computer as if they
know something will happen. If
we can connect into the
old this or come get
them, because somehow they, they,
they share the same patient
that maybe they have some
kids that want to access
into the computer, not just
for nonstop. Yes, but also
for creating something new. So
it's not just, it's not
just this device, but also
if we looking into deep,
deeper into the Apple two
community, they have like a
SD card for the SD
card reader for the Apple,
two Audra, Fiji for the
Apple two or even hard
drive in front of Apple
to our network, into the
modern, like a wifi. So
this community built a bridge.
That's why I see that
it's a possibility for the
technology, because I'm not very
very into with the electronic
style, but this where these
helped me or how people
do bridging between the old
computer to the modern computer
and it create a purpose
from it. Yeah. I noticed
that one of the themes
that I've identified in looking
at your work over the
years is that you like
to constrain yourself and then
see what you can do
with that constraint. I noticed
that, you know, you, you
make vines, you make videos,
then sometimes you'll work for
hours for a six second
video. It seems like you
would be perfect to be
on vine, but now vine
has gone. How do you
feel about vine being gone?
Fine. It's like a reminder
for me that everyone can
create something if they they're
living in a very constant
or very limited situation. So
it just like let that
trigger our, our creativity, not
by so many options, but,
but pick only one option
and then create something from
it. So the six second
and the, and, and also
we cannot import the video
from outside of pine itself.
It's just like asking people,
what can you do with
it? What can you do
with this limitation? So somehow
it trigger me. It just
like I have something some,
some, some earth to show
or proving that it's possible.
So because it's already six
seconds, so I can do
it before I sleep. Or
even though that they are,
or even before I go
to work. So I can
create just only smart animation,
traditional and industry with the
paper and pencil and our
surprise that people were like
the response very, very overwhelming.
I mean, they, they're not
expecting that. There's a possibility
to create a hand rowing
any method with the wine
itself. So based on that
after death, so it's just
like a, become something in
mind and be that, that
when that in the future,
I have to create something,
press on the, something that
impossible. What would you tell
people who watch these things,
who look at your timeline,
who look at your photographs
and they say, wow, that's
amazing. But this is only
possible because he's so talented.
And he knows these things,
but this is not For
me. That's because I am,
maybe I'm just too much
to listen to my children,
even their marbles into something
that doesn't make sense because
I'm maybe me and my
wife always trying to reason
something that doesn't make sense.
But basically it makes sense
if we are thinking the
same frequency, if we are
thinking the same imagination, translating
it to something realistic, it's
possible. So it just like,
I don't know how to
say the right word here,
but basically the kids give
us guidance into something that
we cannot see right now
because they have some freedom.
They have no fear into
something like a failure or
mistake. Well, no one has
ever told them. It's not
possible. The kids don't know
you can't do this. So
they do it anyway. They
do it anyway. They throw
it anyway, just like in
the, my, my video in,
when I'm doing with my
son with the stop motion
car, when he built, when
he built the storyboard, he'd
just throw a fuel fuel
pump. And I, and I
asked him, how can you,
how do you want to
build with the fuel pump?
He just said, I don't
know, but after death in
the process, that's what, that's
what I said before is
we are learning by doing
in the process. We just
come up with something that,
can I use this as
a fuel pump, just go
ahead. And it works. I
mean, the spontaneously of, of,
of our children give us
something that, you know, we
tend to plan for something.
We have scheduled, we have
timeline. We have, we have
planned, we have strategy, but
sometimes it distance us to,
with another opportunity. It brings
a wall. It brings so
many kid with a locked
door, but kids never see
that kind of world then
for see, that's kind of,
it just, everything is possible
for some common kid grow
up, but sometimes we don't
need to grow up into
something. So basically that's why
I came up with something
like the fine, like I'm
doing like any mission, basically.
Just when you say it's
possible, it's possible. Yeah. Well,
thank you so much for
talking with me today. Yeah.
Hopefully it's matched with your
expectation. I think it very
much meets and exceeds my
expectations. I hope that everybody
can go to Twitter and
follow Pinot at P I
N O T. And also,
especially your Instagram at instagram.com/peanut.
And I will put links
to all of these things
that we talked about, including
where you can buy a
copy of this and like
a poster size and put
it on your, or your
wall. If you want to
see all of these animations
available for printing. So thanks
so much. This has been
wonderful. Thank you so much.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .